Jenkins - 1 Reviews:
---------------

1. Challenges persisted in Traditional Integration method 
CI and CD - No Automation
Slowness, Resource idle, No frequent release, debugging - challenge

2. What was the mechanism followed to eliminate Nokia Nightly build process?
Continuous Integration - Jenkins

3. Language used to developed Jenkins?
Java

4. What is meant by plug-ins? How many plug-ins there jenkins? What is the use for 
   Project management?
add-ons - addtional features
2500
Integration + Enable any features

5. will it require to install Java as a pre-requisites before we install jenkins?
   if yes, Why?
Yes
it is developed with Java

6. What is the default Port number for Jenkins? Is this amendable? 
   from which file system can find port number configuration?
8080
yes
/etc/default - jenkins


7. Is Jenkins an Daemon process? If yes, Specifcy the file system path?
   also mention that what type of informations it may contains?
Yes
/etc/init.d


8. Is there any command use to verify Jenkins running status?
ps -ef | grep jenkins


9. What is the command use to reboot Jenkins?
service httpd restart
service jenkins restart


10. Will it possible to restart Jenkins in GUI?
http://10.20.02.45:8080/restart


11. What is the difference between Status and weather for particular job?
success or failure - status
weather - stablity

12. Is "Remotely Triggering Job" method for the job runs an prefered process?
No - 

13. What is the neccessary to have a Master and Slave method to be implemented in the 
    real-time project?
master - act as a dc - controller for slaves


14. What is the default Job landing path?
/var/lib/jenkins/workspace


15. mention the slaves customized job landing path?
/home/ubuntu/jenkins


16. What is the role of Master? 
controller

17. What is the role of Slave?
Node


18. Will it able to verify the logs of slave jobs from Master's console itself?
Yes ---


19. Will Slave machine require to be install the Jenkins tool? Justify.
No...


20. What is meant by Agent? How to enable the Agent connectivity between Master and Slaves?
ubuntu - ssh localhost



21. What is the Plug-ins type we are using to enhance master and slaves to our project?
manage Node  and cloud - Feature enablement


22. label name?  - calling 

23. how frequently jenkins fetches the chnages from Version control system in amazon?
8 secs





Jenkins -2 Reviews:
-------------------
1. What are the Plug-ins we saw till now?
Deploy to container
Role based stratgey
Delivery Pipeline  
Build Pipeline
Build Monitor View


2. List the important directory in the apache tomcat?
bin
logs
conf
webapps


3. What kind of task Jenkins as a continuous integration tool performs?
Inte + dep

4. What is default Port number for Tomcat? Is this amendable?
8080
Yes

5. When the workspace will be created for one job and in which File system?
job run
/var/lib/jenkins/workspace/

6. Difference between Delivery Pipeline and Build Pipeline?
Manager
Associate

7. What is the main purpose to use on Build Monitor View?
Particular job investigations

8. How to restart jenkins from GUI?
http://3.8.201.72:9090/restart

9. What is the diff b/w CLI and GUI?
execution speed

10. What is the security policy available in the jenkins?
user managed
role-based authorization strategy

11. How to retrieve the Password for the jenkins admin console?


12. Why are we require to have a user management? 
Restricted access

13. How to retrieve password for Jenkins?

14. How to check the version of the Jenkins via CLI without seeing in conf file and GUI?







 
